---
title: A Down to Earth Overview Effect TOE
author: metavalent
layout: post
published: true
comments: true
categories: metavalent
tags: metavalent
created: 2021-09-26T10:22:24-10:00
modified: 2021-09-26T11:56:18-10:00
---

A unique, practical, human scale Theory Of Everything (TOE).

What we learn by "seeing the Earth *from* space and seeing the Earth *in* space." — Frank White

### Pscycho-social CBT for the Adolescent Global Brain

> ([20:45](https://youtu.be/v-ZhGOVTBwI?t=20m45s)):"A planet has no sides, but we make sides." &emdash; Frank White

> ([16:33](https://youtu.be/v-ZhGOVTBwI?t=16m33s)): "Why is it  important that we have these experiences in our lives?"
> "I think  we have a limited view of self and I think some of that's been  imposed upon us by culture, by society, and I don't think that our culture  is bad or wrong, **I think we're in sort of  adolescent sort of  developmental stage of our culture**, certainly in the west. What I think has happened is that  it's led to &endash; although it's changing a certain amount at this point &endash; a certain sort of limited view of self, for many of us. Where we see the self as an individualistic, separate entity, and that has created a version  of self that I think is  limited. And I think there are other versions [of selfhood] that can be included,  that will help us feel more connected to the world that we live in. And so, self-transcendence is this idea of connecting with things  beyond us in the world, with nature, [and the] cosmos as part nature, and with each other, and animals and so on. So, I think it can be helpful in just reminding people. Of course, now modern science is beginning to back this  idea of, *we are all connected*, and this sort of field theory [of consciousness] ... in terms of supporting ... that self-transcendent view that we are connected; but from where I'm approaching it is, I'm not  discounting the individualistic self. **I think it's important to be almost shifting gears and be able to  tolerate and accept that they are all  parts of us**. So, you know, we can't be in  self-transcendent states all the time, at this point and this juncture in civilization. Perhaps in a thousand years; we don't know where we'll be; but at this point I think we need to be able to shift gears and  it's healthy to do so; for most, or for many people." &endash; Annahita Nezami

Watch ["The Overview Effect, Psychedelics & Self Transcendence - David Yaden, Frank White & Annahita Nezami"](https://youtu.be/v-ZhGOVTBwI) if the embed below does not behave nicely. 

<div class="embed-container"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/v-ZhGOVTBwI" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

> Have you discovered or learned something interesting or valuable here? Something that piqued your imagination, creative, research, discovery or other academic, philosophical, or spiritual interest? Let us know with ETH 0x1eb2d6E3f26fBBF31B485bbe3e316D6dAd806632, Cashtag [$JustBePono](https://cash.app/$JustBePono), or [Patreon](https://patreon.com/metavalent). Every action we take in this multiverse, however small, matters and makes a difference. So, thank you and blessings, in this very moment!
