---
layout: post
title: Twitter and Waste the Hours in an Off Hand Way ...
date: 2007-05-13 20:01
author: metavalent
comments: true
categories: [diversion, internet, society]
---
<blockquote>Scrolling away the hours that make up a dull day; twitter and waste the hours in an offhand way. Clicking around with an optical mouse in your own house; waiting for some link or some ping to show you the way.</blockquote>

I've finally found a little time to procrastinate from writing a mandatory Monday missive, and instead I've been tweaking the twitterverse into some semblance of subjective superficial comprehension. In other words, I didn't know WTF <a href="https://www.twitter.com/metavalent">all the twittering</a> was all about until the last twelve hours or so. 

Suffice to say, I'm fascinated. But then, I've always been easily distracted by twinkly and sparkly things like <a href="https://twittervision.com/">TwitterVision</a> and <a href="https://flickrvision.com/">FlickrVision</a>, so I just hadda go out and get me some <a href="https://tinyurl.com/2g5a7c">Power Twitter</a> type <a href="https://alexking.org/projects/wordpress">Twitter Tools</a> and see what possible flavors of cognitive dissonance were out there for the tweaking. 

After all, it was just so beautiful outside today, I simply couldn't resist the temptation to sit in front of a CRT for another 8 to 12 uninterrupted hours in a vain attempt to make up for all the lost time spent planning for statewide government infrastructure roll outs during the week. You know, the kind that have been three years in the planning, will take another three years to begin implementing, and then will be three years behind the curve by the time the first server actually powers up. Alas, this is what the man is willing to pay you for, so you do it; watching another week's interesting papers and essays flit by, untouched.

At the moment, I'm beginning to wonder whether I've simply rediscovered the fact that there is nothing like a weekend binge on neocortical fast food, to take the ol' moderately impaired, somewhat psychopharmacologically repaired/enhanced mind off the weekly wage slave grind. Just like the rest of the American marketplace, the so-called "social networking" phenomena appears to be full of opportunities to boldly stare down our fear of the unknown and emerge, just hours later, Enlightened, New, Hip, Capable, Connected, Included. Perhaps we even grow gracefully into our New Identity as Master of the Latest Pluginy Widgety Thingy. You know, the same way we walk just a little more sprightly with that new pair of shoes for the first few days. "These new shoes clearly announce and affirm the New Me, to all who cross my path this fine day. Good day! How are you? Just fine, thank you."

The cynical synapses are suggesting that it's almost as if we're gaining little glimpses of what the seventh grade popularity contest might look like in an uploaded universe. "Oh, you haven't explored and transcended Second Life? That's too bad ... Oh, you haven't explored and transcended the Twitterverse? Oh, so sad ... How do you like my new shoes? Oh, you still have <em>those</em> old things? Don't worry, we can still be friends."






