---
layout: post
title: Gravity Probe B Secures Alternative Funding To Complete Science
date: 2008-09-27 16:23
author: metavalent
comments: true
categories: [metavalent, physics, space]
---
================================
GP-B STATUS UPDATE -- September 26, 2008
================================

Since our May 23rd status update, GP-B has continued to make 
significant progress--fiscal and scientific. NASA funding and 
sponsorship of the program ends on September 30, 2008, but GP-B has 
secured alternative funding that will enable our science team to 
continue working at least through December 2009 in order to complete 
the data analysis and bring GP-B to a proper close.

The GP-B science team is continuing to make large strides in the data 
analysis. On Friday, August 29, 2008, the 18th meeting of our 
external GP-B Science Advisory Committee was held at Stanford to 
report our progress since the previous SAC meeting in November 2007. 
The ensuing SAC report to NASA states:

     "The progress reported at SAC-18 was truly extraordinary and we
     commend the GPB team for this achievement. This has been a heroic
     effort, and has brought the experiment from what seemed like a state
     of potential failure, to a position where the SAC now believes that they
     will obtain a credible test of relativity, even if the accuracy does not
     meet the original goal. In the opinion of the SAC Chair, this rescue
     warrants comparison with the mission to correct the flawed optics 
     of the Hubble Space Telescope, only here at a minuscule fraction
     of the cost." --SAC #18 Report to NASA

On October 6-10, six GP-B team members have been invited to present 
these dramatically improved, interim results at an International 
Space Science Institute (ISSI) workshop on "The Nature of Gravity: 
Confronting Theory and Experiment in Space" to be held in Bern, 
Switzerland. Following the Berne workshop, these improved interim 
results will undergo a thorough peer-review and vetting; then towards 
the end of this year, we plan to announce them publicly.

We very much appreciate your continued interest in GP-B, and we will 
keep you posted on our progress in future status updates.

===================
PREVIOUS GP-B UPDATES
===================
If you wish to read any of our previous updates, our GP-B Web site 
includes a chronological archive of all the updates/highlights (with 
photos and drawings) that we have posted over the past 8 years: 
https://einstein.stanford.edu/highlights/hlindexmain.html

=============================
OTHER LINKS THAT MAY INTEREST YOU
=============================

Our NEW AND IMPROVED GP-B Web site, https://einstein.stanford.edu 
contains lots of information about the Gravity Probe B experiment, 
general relativity, and the amazing technologies that were developed 
to carry out this experiment.

Video and/or audio of May 18, 2006 public lecture by Principal 
Investigator, Professor Francis Everitt, on GP-B. You can view a 
Flash video of the lecture in your Web browser: 
https://einstein.stanford.edu/Media/Everitt_Brainstorm-flash.html You 
can also download either a video or audio only copy of the lecture to 
an iPod from the Stanford University iTunes U Web site: 
https://itunes.stanford.edu, This Web page automatically launches the 
Apple iTunes program on both Macintosh and Windows computers, with a 
special Stanford on iTunes U "music store," containing free downloads 
of Stanford lectures, performances, and events. Francis Everitt's 
"Testing Einstein in Space" lecture is located in the Faculty 
Lectures section. People with audio-only iPods can download the 
version under the Audio tab; people with 5th generation (video) 
iPodfs can download the version under the Video tab.

Visual tour of the GP-B spacecraft and payload from our GP-B Web 
site: https://einstein.stanford.edu/content/vehicle_tour/index.html

PDF file containing a 1/20 scale, paper model of the GP-B spacecraft 
that you can download  print out, and assemble: 
https://einstein.stanford.edu/content/paper_model.

NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center also has a series of Web pages 
devoted to GP-B:  https://www.gravityprobeb.com

The Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics (Cambridge) and York 
University (Toronto), with contributions from the Observatoire de 
Paris, have been studying the motions of the guide star, IM Pegasi 
for over a decade.  To find out more, visit: 
https://www.yorku.ca/bartel/guidestar/. In addition, you'll find 
information in the Extraordinary Technologies page-Telescope &amp; Guide 
Star section on our Web site: 
https://einstein.stanford.edu/TECH/technology1.html#telescope
