---
layout: post
title: Expanding Literacy
date: 2008-07-27 12:08
author: metavalent
comments: true
categories: [education, society]
---
I suppose it is the stereotypes that most annoy me <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/27/books/27reading.html?ex=1374897600&amp;en=81a364206914f90a&amp;ei=5124&amp;partner=facebook&amp;exprod=facebook">here</a>. Demographically, we look very much like the scene depicted in this story. Two young adults and we are in our late 40's and early 50's as well.

However, in our living room -- and I suspect in thousands of other living rooms -- ALL FOUR OF US have our Macs, Linux PC's, and Windows PC's out, sitting around the coffee table.

For us, the idea of a television was obsolete more than ten years ago and the artifact discarded permanently.  One day, we'd like to get a large screen display, but only so that ANY of us can optionally send our stream to the large screen to share with others. Until large HD displays do what we need them to do, we won't waste a penny on them.

We just want a BIG, DUMB, DISPLAY that receives 802.11x (any flavor of wifi). We don't need all the irrelevant other embedded intelligence in today's expensive models. Just enable us to take turns driving the perpetual impromptu party of deeply engaging lifelong edutainment as a lifestyle. We are LEARNERS and GAMERS; and two activities consistently propel one another forward.

I don't recall where the quotation came from, but for our family, it has always been a guiding principle:A master in the art of living draws no sharp distinction between his work and his play, his labor and his leisure, his mind and his body, his education and his recreation. He hardly knows which is which.

He simply pursues his vision of excellence through whatever he is doing and leaves others to determine whether he is working or playing. To himself, he always seems to be doing both.

For us -- like anyone with half a clue between the ages of 13 and 93 -- over the past five years or more, media has been increasingly about REMIX and SHARING. Broadcasting is so anachronistic that we simply cannot comprehend being even marginally engaged by such a pitifully iraqi-antebellum (iraqebellum?) trickling of mostly irrelevant and outdated information. 

It's nearly impossible for ANY television outlet to present information that we didn't already access hours, days, weeks, or months ago.


SOURCE: <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/27/books/27reading.html?ex=1374897600&amp;en=81a364206914f90a&amp;ei=5124&amp;partner=facebook&amp;exprod=facebook">Literacy Debate -  Online, R U Really Reading? - Series - NYTimes.com</a>.
