---
layout: post
title: What If Bacteria Designed Computers?
date: 2011-04-03 13:00
author: metavalent
comments: true
categories: [biohacking, metavalent]
---
[vimeo 858385 w=500 h=282]<p><a href="https://vimeo.com/858385">What If Bacteria Designed Computers?</a> from <a href="https://vimeo.com/user423494">Jared Boone</a> on <a href="https://vimeo.com">Vimeo</a>.</p><p>Ward Cunningham - What If Bacteria Designed Computers?<br /><br />This talk explores Bynase, the biologically inspired protocol that Cybord computers use to signal values amongst themselves. The primary value of Bynase is that it drives system designers into novel tradeoffs with analogies in biological systems. A second value of Bynase is that it encourages casual small-scale hardware/software projects suitable for one-off art or educational projects.<br /><br />Ward Cunningham, best known as the inventor of the Wiki, is a computer programmer who takes inspiration from life's processes ranging from cell signaling to cultural evolution. His day jobs include serving as Chief Technology Officer of AboutUs.org, a growth company hosting the communities formed by organizations and their constituents. Ward also co-founded the consultancy, Cunningham &amp; Cunningham, Inc., has served as a Director of the Eclipse Foundation, an Architect in Microsoft's Patterns &amp; Practices Group, the Director of R&amp;D at Wyatt Software and as Principle Engineer in the Tektronix Computer Research Laboratory.<br /><br />This talk took place at DorkbotPDX 0x01, March 30, 2008. Visit dorkbotpdx.org for more information.<br /></p>
