---
title: Rushed
created: 2021-04-10T09:59:59-07:00
modified: 2021-04-10T10:20:52-07:00
---

What is the nature of that which we call rushed? Hurried?

Sitting quietly, from whence arises this feeling of being rushed?

How is it possible to suddenly feel rushed, hurried, mildly frantic?

So I pondered, after a second cup of caffeinated English breakfast tea.

Taking a breath, lowering the shoulders, I discover [this](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1356551/).

> Caffeine and the central nervous system: mechanisms of action, biochemical, metabolic and psychostimulant effects.

> Caffeine increases energy metabolism throughout the brain but decreases at the same time cerebral blood flow, inducing a relative brain hypoperfusion.

> The effects of caffeine on learning, memory, performance and coordination are rather related to the methylxanthine action on arousal, _vigilance_ and fatigue. Caffeine exerts obvious effects on _anxiety_ and sleep which vary according to individual sensitivity to the methylxanthine.

And [this](https://www.healthline.com/health/caffeine-and-anxiety).

> Caffeine is the most popular and widely-used drug in the world. In fact, 85 percent of the U.S. population consumes some every day.

> But is it good for everyone?

> According to the National Institute of Mental Health, about 31 percent of U.S. adults will at some point in their lives experience an anxiety disorder. 

> Does caffeine affect — or even cause — anxiety?

> There is an association between caffeine ingestion and mental health.

> In fact, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM–5) — the guide published by the American Psychiatric Association and used by healthcare professionals for the diagnosis of mental disorders — currently lists four caffeine-related disorders:

- caffeine intoxication
- caffeine withdrawal
- unspecified caffeine-related disorder
- other caffeine-induced disorders (anxiety disorder, sleep disorder)

> A 2008 study showed how caffeine increases alertness by blocking a brain chemical (adenosine) that makes you feel tired, while at the same time triggering the release of adrenalin that’s known to increase energy.

> If the amount of caffeine is high enough, these effects are stronger, resulting in caffeine-induced anxiety.

> While there are mental benefits to caffeine, high doses are known to induce anxiety symptoms, and people with panic disorder and social anxiety disorder are especially sensitive.

> A 2005 study noted that excessive caffeine consumption can lead to symptoms similar to psychiatric conditions including sleep and anxiety disorders, increasing hostility, anxiety, and psychotic symptoms.