---
title: Live It Right
published: true
created: 2021-07-15T08:47:01-10:00
modified: 2021-07-15T10:38:59-10:00
---

https://youtu.be/R5rNoV1Qy_Q

O.M.G.

Please, please, please find a way to find time, even if listening on earbuds while doing other stuff.

On why, because life is utterly ultimately meaningless and cynical ... here's what to do with that ... perhaps even what we must do with it, according to our DNA, environment, causes and conditions.

Just. Wow.

Obviously, decide for yourself whether you believe in a sense of inherent non-symbolic benevolence beyond or behind material existence. Regardless, I promise promise promise that this is one of the best descriptions of universe interbeing exploring doubting trusting gratitude loving opportunity to be of service, in the smallest of ways, ever presented. 

100% money back guarantee.

"Conscience is what makes us human. People don't like sincere earnestness because they've been taught to be too cool for school." — Michael Malice
Intriguing: Michael seems to suggest that government coercion is coercive, but land owner rentier coercion is not? So, collecting taxes to repair roads that we all use is coercive, but dumping all of your belongings on the street within 3 days of not paying rent isn't? Interesting. Also, the implication is that if you can't afford to hire your own private security force, there should be no one to come and help you out, like a police department. Interesting.
Michael asks, "When has government ever [innovated something significant] and then backed off?"

Um, railroads, electricity, the internet, which is the only way these ideas are even being heard right now, space travel ... LOL.

The exchange itself is so, so, so good. :sparkling_heart:
