---
title: 'Candice Denver - Balanced View'
created: 2021-05-03T09:15:31-07:00
modified: 2021-05-03T09:32:11-07:00
---

"Early in childhood, Candice O’Denver was introduced to computer science and the use of original algorithms to reach consistent results."

"When we're trying to control and regulate our points of view, then we're afraid to live. We're completely afraid to live. Not only is death taboo, but life is taboo as well, and so we're trapped. Talk about existential despair. Yikes!"

> The ease of *what is here* can never be undown, regardless of its labels or descriptions. That becomes obvious in short moments.

Her *Balanced View* pedagogy is a "grassroots movement [that] empowers people around the world to see their talents and strengths and contribute them for the benefit of all. It allows people to enjoy an increasing happiness and joy by tapping into their potential for living life in a deeply caring and beneficial way."

> In the seminal years of computer history, her father began the high level design of the first international computer network for food distribution. He later led the team that developed and implemented this system when technological innovations matched his aspirations. Inspired by her father’s drawings of bar codes and stories about a future of food distribution to everyone in the world based on the bar code, Candice became very familiar with the axiom of the reducibility as a concept for working with information and *reducibility became Candice’s natural way of problem-solving*.

> She felt a strong urgency to bring unity to the people of the world through a standardized means of bringing out the best in people.

> Candice O’Denver is particularly interested in utilizing the philosophy and mathematics of computer science as the basis for a revolution in social science, particularly philosophy of mind, which always has been left to vague levels of abstraction with no result of permanent benefit. She applies precise levels of organization and explanation used in computer science to arrive at specific results in the philosophy of mind. Advancing theories of information, reducibility, organization and explanation, she began a comparative analysis of all the trainings in the nature of mind and human nature. This analysis is ongoing for forty years. From that Candice put together a comprehensive map of what a training would look like that would actually draw out the beneficial potential in people.

Learn more at [Candice ODenver.net](http://candiceodenver.net/about-candice-odenver/
