---
title: The COVID Pharma Karma Cycle of Suffering and Death
author: metavalent
layout: post
published: true
comments: true
categories: metavalent
tags: metavalent
created: 2021-04-28T07:30:13-07:00
modified: 2021-04-28T08:48:03-07:00
---

Dare to even write about logical fallacies, inconsistencies, and plain old lies of convenience to cover up for supply chain failures &ndash; with respect to pandemic activities and responses &ndash; and one is almost sure to be downranked or deplatformed on the major social media silos, in the April 2021 environment.

That's just what dementia-directed narcissistic CULT-ures do. We are all living in one big Winchester Mystery House now.

The same thing could potentially happen here on GitHub, but the risk feels a little bit lower because this is a site that hosts code, and words are code. Written human language is code. So, our context and awareness here is different than some adjacent default consensus realities.

### Maybe We Should Be Following the Truly Blind Leading The Blind

100 honest blind people describing an elephant each exist within their own 100% accurate and valid adjacent and parallel perceptual experiences. 

Each experiences a completely unique reality, within a larger reflective reality. None of these perceivers &ndash; each kind of micro-faction of a particular worldview &mdash; needs to fight for dominance, to be believed, or adopted by the others, under threat of economic sanctions or war.

In fact, if any individual view becomes dominant, the entire elephant ceases to exist. Because the elephant isn't any single one of its parts. We are a global civilization in transition, in partnership with an extremely fickle and fragile AI, reflective of those human qualities in the programmers who brought it forth.

We cannot speak of the ongoing cultivation of a happy and healthy global village without including artificial intelligence as one of the valid ways of perceiving the elephant. That said, artificial intelligence is also only a frame of reference and perception, equal in station to the 100 blind experiencers, and equally blind in its own unique way.

### Post-Truth Or Post-Hegemony?

The concept of a post-truth society has gained some purchase in the default consensus reality narrative in recent years. However, is it really post-truth, or is it simply post-hegemonic truth? Are many Americans simply so used to not having to question their own worldview, that examining it at all feels like the complete obliteration of their existence? This too is consistent with the behavior of a fragile, narcissistic society, isn't it?

I honestly need you to tell me which part of this I have wrong, because the entire purpose of this Open Inquiry writing space is an attempt to discern the nature of how experiential realities emerge and are experienced by experiencers.

The default consensus reality narrative appears to have gone along these lines:

- Wearing masks protects others. The reason we wear a mask is to not spread the virus. Remember, you can be symptom-free or even immune, and still transmit the virus. Wear a mask, above all.
- We have developed a vaccine. Remember, being vaccinated doesn't mean you can't transmit the virus, so please keep wearing your mask. The number one thing that prevents transmission is wearing a mask.
- If you get vaccinated, you can stop wearing your masks in public. As long as you're good, forget everybody else. Ah, finally, back to narcissistic self-centered American normal. I'm good,f you.

Here's [what the CDC website says](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/vaccines/fully-vaccinated.html) as of the moment of this writing:

> We’re still learning how vaccines will affect the spread of COVID-19. After you’ve been fully vaccinated against COVID-19, **you should keep taking precautions — like wearing a mask**, staying 6 feet apart from others, and avoiding crowds and poorly ventilated spaces—in indoor public places until we know more.

This entire bizarre theater feels like a global experiment to see if Americans can be taught to give a flying f*** about their neighbor. For that matter, even their own family members.

When traveling in many Asian countries, it's just normal common sense and courtesy to put on a mask whenever I'm not feeling too great, in order to protect others. That was true before the pandemic and will continue to be true into the foreseeable future. 

People in these Eastern contexts exercise the liberty of their own common sense of knowing when and when not to wear a mask, because a healthy awareness, consideration, and concern for others is implicit.

What we have witnessed in America is that such awareness, consideration, and concern for others is mostly exercised in word only.

So, what we seem to be experiencing and will likely continue experiencing is this global theater of sorting out the role of the individual within the collective, and the duty of the collective to the individual, as our global community becomes truly deeply integrated.

We cannot continue to fight and war in East-West Red-Blue binary polarities any longer, if we wish to fulfill the great commission to cultivate conditions on Earth as it is in Heaven.

In these next chapters of this collective consciousness shared holographic ARG space called Earth, we will soon all bear witness to whether or not humanity learns how to integrate in sacred wholeness, we're blows the whole thing to smithereens, again.

I have plenty of my biases, strong opinions, and suggestions, expressed in these pages. I also know that ultimately I'm only a drop in this ocean which when it's not polluted by the effluent of greed, hatred, and ignorance, is an incredible vast and sparklingly clear weightless space, available to anyone and everyone at any time, in every place.

Watch [Biden says fully vaccinated Americans don't have to wear masks outside](https://youtu.be/u6iFMkp7ckw) if the embed below does not behave nicely. 

<div class="embed-container"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/u6iFMkp7ckw" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>
