---
created: 2021-04-14T07:08:28-07:00
modified: 2021-04-14T07:13:45-07:00
---

Wage Slave boundaries

https://twitter.com/CrisprChild/status/1382098993224769537?s=19


I had an uhh... "disagreement" with my boss today.

He told me I needed to stay and finish some extra work needed doing today.

I told him I had things planned around my scheduled time off, and couldn't stay past it, but id do what I could before that time.

He told me I needed to stay and help out, that it needed to be done

I told him again that I couldn't. that my shift ended on the schedule in 2 minuets

He told me that time in was exact, time out was approximate on the schedule. I shouldn't have planned things around that time

I told him I was an employee, not family. I was only here for when I was scheduled to be

He told me I couldnt just show up, make money, and leave. That I had to help out

I told him thats exactly what my job was, to show up, do my job, make money, and leave

he did not like that

He told me that's not what my job was, that my job was to help run the business and that meant I had to help out when he needed me to.

I (a little incensed) told him he was my boss, not my family, and I was there to do a job not here to fix his life.

He told me he was my boss, and that I couldn't talk to him like that.

I told him he couldn't treat me like that.

He told me under state law he could fire me in the first 90 days with no reason. That he would do so right now.

I told him go ahead.

He told me these were the standards of the job, and that I had to meet those standards.

I told him these were the standards I was agreeing to be employed by, and if he didn't want to meet them he was not required to employ me.

He didn't say anything.

I asked him if he wanted me to come in tomorrow or not.

he said "yeah"

I left.

I should mention that as far as "helping out" I had already been working a schedule 10+ hours over my requested hours every week since I started. I was "helping out" far more than was reasonable already.

50/50 I'm getting fired this week at best, but damn it feels good to stand up for yourself tbh.

I have my boundaries. I will hold them, come hell or high water. I have always been clear about that. I don't let people take advantage of me anymore.

"i will straight up just send you some money for having integrity if it does turn out you're fired"

I'm probably fine, I have a bit in the bank if it comes to it, but I do appreciate the sentiment <3

"Money will never equate integrity. You can’t reward someone for being real. They never needed you to reward them lol. Kinda disrespectful, that after all that he wrote you assumed he was broke and financially illiterate. If you can accept that, you can start healing."