---
published: true
created: 2021-04-20T21:19:50-07:00
modified: 2021-04-20T21:42:39-07:00
type: Journal
---

Krishnamurti asks, "to what are you attached?"

> I am attached to the acquisition of knowledge and the articulation of words to convey concepts through the noosphere.

"To understand the meaning of ending, of negation. So, while living, can you negate attachment *completely*? That means living with death. To negate something that is untrue. To negate your double talk. So your brain has this quality of integrity. So death is an ending that has extraordinary purpose in life. Not suicide. Not euthanasia. The ending of your attachment your pride, your antagonism for another, your hatred for another. When you see It holistically, there is total freedom from death, not from the ending of the body, but from fear."

"You only believe, you only want, your power your money, your status, your position, your technique, skill, and money &mdash; and perhaps sex. [That's all you want](https://youtu.be/Mo9nZEhZKMY?t=1h12m08s). And that's what human beings want and so will you continue in that state. Not you as an individual, but that state of consciousness will continue. And this is life. This is the agony of pleasure and pain of life. But when you understand that life and death are one &mdash; they are one when you begin to end. And leaving, end your attachment, end your beliefs, end your antagonism, your prejudices, your conclusions. Negate all of that. Then, you are living side by side with death, which is the most extraordinary thing to do. There's neither the past, nor the present, nor the future. There is only the ending."