---
title: Meaninglessness
created: 2022-01-05T17:38:04-10:00
modified: 2022-01-05T17:38:37-10:00
---

If meaninglessness is the meaning we've given to life, we haven't extinguished meaning, only swept it under the rug of our calling to life's unspeakably mysterious meaning. For writers and readers and lovers of words, this is perhaps an expression of frustration over the inability to find words for that which cannot be expressed by words.

As blips of breathe and sound, it's our words that are actually meaningless huffs and puffs blown into and immediately dissipated into an infinitely expanding cosmos; and that is an understanding which might make us feel piercingly powerless at times. When we feel distant from the intrinsic infinite meaning and settledness of our own true selves, we can fall into that kind of anomie, or disorientation, between who we are, what we say, and what we do in this ordinary realm of everyday Earthly life. We can feel it, like a horse can feel the subtlest shifting of a rider on its back, when those three things are even slightly out of alignment.

Are we the horse, or the rider? Do we feel like we are being ridden hard and driven by external conditions, like an unbalanced and inexperienced rider? Or do feel like a white-knuckled rider, holding on for dear life, flailing about with an inexplicably flimsy set of controls, and wondering why life seems to buck us off every time we Try So Hard?

From either perspective, the first and best reaction is to stop, feel, listen to the present moment. A patient, wise, and experienced horse will do this on its own, instinctively attempting to calm an inexperienced rider, by simply refusing to respond to the flailing. A wise and experienced rider will similarly do the same with an inexperienced horse.

When this happens, if we can take that window of opportunity to heed life's invitation to realignment, it becomes a perfect time to pause and reflect upon the wonder that any of this is happening at all. Even our most disorienting confusion can be met with a sense of wonder, "Wow, I am SO confused! It's amazing to realize the extent to which I have no idea how this can possibly work out!"

Or, in the case of many a North Pacific deep sea fishermen, how we will even survive and see home again, in the middle of ten-story high seas, while simultaneously fully aware of the settled serenity of the indelible deep, literally, right below their feet.
