---
created: 2023-06-02T12:55:33-07:00
modified: 2023-06-02T13:21:17-07:00
---

# Stop Making Sense

You'll probably find all kinds of problems in this post. You'll probably disagree with some or all of it.

"There's a fair degree of mental instability and even mental illness in the activist community. Really, in all activist communities, and in particular this one. The level of viciousness and hysteria, it's hard to know what to compare it to and it's one of the reasons why I've avoided this issue." – Sam Harris

And that is exactly what the forces of disordered thinking want. To silence and intimidate even the slightest impulse toward clarity and reason.

This conversation represents a cautionary narrative about the potential for counterproductive metavalent stigmergy.

A *new default consensus reality* that demonizes clear reasoning is not a path to a better world. When aggression in the name of tolerance crosses a high threshold for intolerance, that's a cultural red flag.

In and of itself, change is neutral. It is our individual and collective duty and obligation to work on ourselves, work through our challenges, clarify our own consciousness, and improve our communication and interpersonal relations in a ways that truly result in a world that authentically "works for everyone, as Buckminster Fuller phrased it.

https://youtu.be/5Z6rTJS3uDU

"Woman convicted of exposing her penis ... really just seems like the [gaslighting of a whole society](https://youtu.be/5Z6rTJS3uDU?t=48m15s). Disasterously stupid. " – Sam Harris
